# MT-with-Advansed-Classification-Model
To optimize decoder parameter runtime using classification method. It is an advansed method for PBSMT. It is a framework to optimize decoder parameter runtime using classification approach. Based on the writing structural complexity and other factors, decoding parameters need to be changed to get optimal output in minimal time. The decoding parameters (i.e. stack size and beam threshold) in statistical machine translation systems have traditionally been set to default values, but there is experimental evidence that dynamic parameter selection based on the input text increases translation accuracy and decreases decoding time. One of the primary challenges has been to train a robust classification model that can predict these parameters from the input text. The current state-of-the-art model had underfitting issues owing to a lack of data and the absence of sophisticated classification algorithms. In this paper, we propose an improved classification model to dynamically predict the decoding parameters (stack size and beam threshold) from the source text for the broadly used open-source machine translation toolkit moses decoder. We, at first, used two strategies for data augmentation by mixing the original fifty-nine files as mentioned in the state-of-the-art method and managed to generate over thirty-four thousand files. Using these entire files, we have prepared the data-set in CSV format which is required for the proposed approach. Following that, we used a brute force approach to decode two thousand eight hundred and sixty three of these files over thirty-six parameter combinations to determine the best stack size and beam threshold values. We used a new feature set, a sparse matrix representation of the input text to train our models. In comparison to the state-of-the-art, the used classification models show an improvement of 43.14% in terms of test accuracy and the parameters predicted by our models reduce the decoding time by 30.9%. 

# Source Code
https://huggingface.co/DebajyotyBanik/MT-with-Advansed-Classification-Model/tree/main

# Cite 
The Decoder Framework for Optimized Pruning Strategy in Faster Statistical Machine Translation, Debajyoty Banik, 2024
